# CarND Path Planning Project
Michael P. Scherer

## State Manager

High level behaviors are dictated by a state manager.

### States

#### Stay In Lane

Stay in the current lane. The car is held in this state for a minimum of 5 seconds to reduce unexpected behavior from the perspective of other drivers. It transitions to either begin a left or right lane change if traffic in the current lane is slower than one of the adjacent lanes.

#### Begin Left Lane Change

Matches speeds with the car in the left lane in order to prepare for a lane change, while still balancing the speed with the one in front of it. When a large enough gap is present, the system transitions to the left lane change state. The car may abandon this maneuver while in this state and continue staying in the current lane if it finds that the current lane is faster and it takes too long to change lanes.

#### Left Lane Change

Actually commits to a left lane change.

#### Begin Right Lane Change

Same as begin left lane change, but for right lane changes.

#### Right Lane Change

Same as begin left lane change, but for right lane changes.

## World Model

Information on the surrounding world is stored in the world model. The world model calculates the acceleration of the targets fed into it based on successive speed updates. Currently the model just uses simple linear newtonian physics to predict the motion of cars forward.

## Trajectory Planner (Path Generation)

Candidate trajectories are generated by first filling in a small number of points from the previous path for continuity.

Waypoints are chosen in Frenet coordinates which extend in front of the car either in the current lane (constant d) or to an adjacent lane as required (linearly increasing d). The waypoints are chosen with a spacing of 20 units in s. The car's current position is then taken to build a vehicle-centric coordinate system. Each waypoint is converted to global x-y, and then subsequently into the vehicle space. The waypoints are then used to construct a spline to create a smooth path through space.

The smooth path is then taken, and a model of speed along X is used to ramp the speed up along the path, assuming a fixed time interval of 0.01s. In other words, choosing points along the spline dictates the speed because the time duration between each point is fixed at 0.01s. The points are then transformed into global x-y space and added to the candidate trajectory.

Candidate safety is determined by verifying both that it stays on the road and that the path does not collide with any other vehicle.

